Here are 100+ MySQL interview questions with their answers, ranging from basic to more intermediate topics: 
Q) How do you create a new database in MySQL? 
Answer: CREATE DATABASE database_name;

Q) What is the difference between an INNER JOIN and a LEFT JOIN ? 
Answer: An INNER JOIN returns rows when there is a match in both tables, while a LEFT JOIN returns all rows from the left table and the matched rows from the right table. 
If there's no match, the result is NULL on the right side. 

Q) What is normalization, and why is it important? 
Answer: Normalization is the process of organizing a database to reduce redundancy and ensure data integrity. 
It divides larger tables into smaller ones and establishes relationships between them using foreign keys. 

Q) Describe 1NF, 2NF, and 3NF in database normalization.
Answer: 
1NF (First Normal Form): Each table has a primary key, and all attributes are atomic (no repeating groups or arrays). 
2NF (Second Normal Form): All non-key attributes are fully functionally dependent on the primary key. 
3NF (Third Normal Form): All attributes are functionally dependent only on the primary key. 

Q) What is a subquery, and how is it different from a JOIN? 
Answer: A subquery is a query nested inside another query. 
A subquery can return data that will be used in the main query as a condition. 
A JOIN is used to combine rows from two or more tables based on a related column.

Q) What is a stored procedure in MySQL? 
Answer: A stored procedure is a precompiled group of SQL statements stored in the database. 
It can be invoked as needed. 

Q) How can you handle errors in stored procedures? 
Answer: In MySQL, you can use the DECLARE statement to define error handlers using CONTINUE or EXIT handlers. 

Q) How do you prevent SQL injection in your queries? 
Answer: Use parameterized queries or prepared statements, avoid constructing queries with string concatenation using external input, and always validate and sanitize user input. 

Q) What are TRIGGERS in MySQL? 
Answer: Triggers are automatic actions that the database can perform when a specified change occurs (like an INSERT , UPDATE , or DELETE operation). 

Q) Can you explain the difference between CHAR_LENGTH and LENGTH functions? 
Answer: CHAR_LENGTH returns the number of characters in a string, while LENGTH returns the number of bytes. For single-byte character sets, they return the same value. 

Q)What is the purpose of the GROUP_CONCAT function in MySQL? 
Answer: GROUP_CONCAT returns a concatenated string of aggregated data values for each group of rows in the result set.
